# aws-certified-developer-associate
* AWS requires approximately 5 weeks of usage data to generate budget forecasts
* The following list provides summary information about the different deployment policies and adds related considerations.
  * All at once – The quickest deployment method. Suitable if you can accept a short loss of service, and if quick deployments are important to you. With this method, Elastic Beanstalk deploys the new application version to each instance. Then, the web proxy or application server might need to restart. As a result, your application might be unavailable to users (or have low availability) for a short time.
  * Rolling – Avoids downtime and minimizes reduced availability, at a cost of a longer deployment time. Suitable if you can't accept any period of completely lost service. With this method, your application is deployed to your environment one batch of instances at a time. Most bandwidth is retained throughout the deployment.
  * Rolling with additional batch – Avoids any reduced availability, at a cost of an even longer deployment time compared to the Rolling method. Suitable if you must maintain the same bandwidth throughout the deployment. With this method, Elastic Beanstalk launches an extra batch of instances, then performs a rolling deployment. Launching the extra batch takes time, and ensures that the same bandwidth is retained throughout the deployment.
  * Immutable – A slower deployment method, that ensures your new application version is always deployed to new instances, instead of updating existing instances. It also has the additional advantage of a quick and safe rollback in case the deployment fails. With this method, Elastic Beanstalk performs an immutable update to deploy your application. In an immutable update, a second Auto Scaling group is launched in your environment and the new version serves traffic alongside the old version until the new instances pass health checks.
  * Traffic splitting – A canary testing deployment method. Suitable if you want to test the health of your new application version using a portion of incoming traffic, while keeping the rest of the traffic served by the old application version.
 * By default, IAM users do not have access to the AWS Billing and Cost Management console. You or your account administrator must grant users access. You can do this by activating IAM user access to the Billing and Cost Management console and attaching an IAM policy to your users. Then, you need to activate IAM user access for IAM policies to take effect. You only need to activate IAM user access once.
 * ALB access logs - Elastic Load Balancing provides access logs that capture detailed information about requests sent to your load balancer. Each log contains information such as the time the request was received, the client's IP address, latencies, request paths, and server responses.
 * Cognito User Pools can use JWT.
 *  You can add AWS Elastic Beanstalk configuration files (.ebextensions directory) to your web application's source code to configure your environment and customize the AWS resources that it contains.
 *  AWS Serverless Application Repository (SAR) - The AWS Serverless Application Repository is a managed repository for serverless applications. It enables teams, organizations, and individual developers to store and share reusable applications, and easily assemble and deploy serverless architectures in powerful new ways.
 *  AWS states that, if your AWS account is less than 12 months old, you can use a t2.micro instance for free within certain usage limits.
 *  KMS stores the CMK (customer master key), and receives data from the clients, which it encrypts and sends back.
 *  Parameters section of a CloudFormation template cannot be associated with Condition.
 *  An Amazon API Gateway Lambda authorizer (formerly known as a custom authorizer) is a Lambda function that you provide to control access to your API. A Lambda authorizer uses bearer token authentication strategies, such as OAuth or SAML. Before creating an API Gateway Lambda authorizer, you must first create the AWS Lambda function that implements the logic to authorize and, if necessary, to authenticate the caller.
 *  Use API Gateway Mapping Templates - In API Gateway, an API's method request can take a payload in a different format from the corresponding integration request payload, as required in the backend. Similarly, vice versa is also possible. API Gateway lets you use mapping templates to map the payload from a method request to the corresponding integration request and from an integration response to the corresponding method response.
 * In DynamoDB You should note that a global secondary index (GSI) contains a selection of attributes from the base table, but they are organized by a primary key that is different from that of the table. The Global secondary indexes allow you to perform queries on attributes that are not part of the table's primary key.
 * Instead of creating individual policies for each user, you can use IAM policy variables and create a single policy that applies to multiple users (a group policy). Policy variables act as placeholders. When you make a request to AWS, the placeholder is replaced by a value from the request when the policy is evaluated.
 * AWS CloudFormation StackSets extends the capability of stacks by enabling you to create, update, or delete stacks across multiple accounts and AWS Regions with a single operation.
 * The following represents the correct order of steps to be followed for creating an app using AWS CDK
   * Create the app from a template provided by AWS CDK
   * Add code to the app to create resources within stacks
   * Build the app (optional)
   * Synthesize one or more stacks in the app
   * Deploy stack(s) to your AWS account 
* You can use the API Gateway console to create a new stage, or you can choose an existing stage while deploying an API. In general, you can add a new stage to an API deployment before redeploying the API.
* You can use versions to manage the deployment of your AWS Lambda functions. For example, you can publish a new version of a function for beta testing without affecting users of the stable production version. You can change the function code and settings only on the unpublished version of a function. When you publish a version, the code and most of the settings are locked to ensure a consistent experience for users of that version. You can create one or more aliases for your AWS Lambda function. A Lambda alias is like a pointer to a specific Lambda function version. You can use routing configuration on an alias to send a portion of traffic to a Lambda function version.
* Security Groups are stateful, so allowing inbound traffic to the necessary ports enables the connection. Network ACLs are stateless, so you must allow both inbound and outbound traffic.
* AM Access Analyzer - AWS IAM Access Analyzer helps you identify the resources in your organization and accounts, such as Amazon S3 buckets or IAM roles, that are shared with an external entity. This lets you identify unintended access to your resources and data, which is a security risk.
* AWS Cloud Development Kit (CDK) - The AWS Cloud Development Kit (AWS CDK) is an open-source software development framework to define your cloud application resources using familiar programming languages.
* When cross-zone load balancing is enabled, each load balancer node distributes traffic across the registered targets in all enabled Availability Zones. When cross-zone load balancing is disabled, each load balancer node distributes traffic only across the registered targets in its Availability Zone. With Application Load Balancers, cross-zone load balancing is always enabled.
* Lambda allocates CPU power in proportion to the amount of memory configured. Memory is the amount of memory available to your Lambda function at runtime. You can increase or decrease the memory and CPU power allocated to your function using the Memory (MB) setting.
* Exported Output Values in CloudFormation must have unique names within a single Region.
* CloudFront Key Pairs - IAM users can't create CloudFront key pairs. You must log in using root credentials to create key pairs.
* IAM is used as a certificate manager only when you must support HTTPS connections in a Region that is not supported by ACM.
* CNAME records can be used to map one domain name to another.
* You can enable API caching in Amazon API Gateway to cache your endpoint's responses. With caching, you can reduce the number of calls made to your endpoint and also improve the latency of requests to your API.
* AWS X-Ray helps developers analyze and debug production, distributed applications, such as those built using a microservices architecture. With X-Ray, you can understand how your application and its underlying services are performing to identify and troubleshoot the root cause of performance issues and errors.
* You can't change the queue type after you create it.
* ```!FindInMap [ MapName, TopLevelKey, SecondLevelKey ]``` - The intrinsic function Fn::FindInMap returns the value corresponding to keys in a two-level map that is declared in the Mappings section.
* Trust policy is the only resource-based policy that the IAM service supports.
* Auto Scaling groups cannot span across multiple Regions.
* Dedicated Instances are Amazon EC2 instances that run in a virtual private cloud (VPC) on hardware that's dedicated to a single customer. Dedicated Instances that belong to different AWS accounts are physically isolated at a hardware level, even if those accounts are linked to a single-payer account.
* Time To Live (TTL) for DynamoDB allows you to define when items in a table expire so that they can be automatically deleted from the database. TTL is provided at no extra cost as a way to reduce storage usage and reduce the cost of storing irrelevant data without using provisioned throughput.
* Amazon Cognito identity pools (federated identities) enable you to create unique identities for your users and federate them with identity providers. With an identity pool, you can obtain temporary, limited-privilege AWS credentials to access other AWS services.
* You can use DynamoDB transactions to make coordinated all-or-nothing changes to multiple items both within and across tables. Transactions provide atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability (ACID) in DynamoDB, helping you to maintain data correctness in your applications.
* ValidateService: ValidateService is the last deployment lifecycle event. It is used to verify the deployment was completed successfully.
* Every time you update an API, you must redeploy the API to an existing stage or to a new stage.
* EBS volumes are AZ locked.
* AWS Lambda service does not support Lambda functions that use multi-architecture container images.
* To deploy a container image to Lambda, the container image must implement the Lambda Runtime API.
* DynamoDB optionally supports conditional writes for write operations (PutItem, UpdateItem, DeleteItem). A conditional write succeeds only if the item attributes meet one or more expected conditions. Otherwise, it returns an error.
* A zonal Reserved Instance provides a capacity reservation in the specified Availability Zone.
* In CloudFormation, parameters are all independent and cannot depend on each other.
* The maximum ratio of provisioned IOPS to requested volume size (in GiB) is 50:1. So, for a 200 GiB volume size, max IOPS possible is 200*50 = 10000 IOPS.
* Serverless Application Model (SAM) Templates include several major sections. Transform and Resources are the only required sections.
* With Amazon DynamoDB transactions, you can group multiple actions together and submit them as a single all-or-nothing TransactWriteItems or TransactGetItems operation.
* To maintain the same number of instances, Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling performs a periodic health check on running instances within an Auto Scaling group. When it finds that an instance is unhealthy, it terminates that instance and launches a new one.
* ```UpdateItem``` action of DynamoDB APIs, edits an existing item's attributes or adds a new item to the table if it does not already exist.
* Define an appspec.yml file in the root directory in AWS Code Deploy.
* The --dry-run option checks whether you have the required permissions for the action, without actually making the request, and provides an error response. If you have the required permissions, the error response is DryRunOperation, otherwise, it is UnauthorizedOperation.
* Delay queues let you postpone the delivery of new messages to a queue for several seconds, for example, when your consumer application needs additional time to process messages. If you create a delay queue, any messages that you send to the queue remain invisible to consumers for the duration of the delay period. The default (minimum) delay for a queue is 0 seconds. The maximum is 15 minutes.
* Amazon Cognito Sync is an AWS service and client library that enables cross-device syncing of application-related user data. You can use it to synchronize user profile data across mobile devices and the web without requiring your own backend.
* While AWS KMS does support sending data up to 4 KB to be encrypted directly, envelope encryption can offer significant performance benefits. When you encrypt data directly with AWS KMS it must be transferred over the network. Envelope encryption reduces the network load since only the request and delivery of the much smaller data key go over the network.
* When you create a VPC endpoint for DynamoDB, any requests to a DynamoDB endpoint within the Region (for example, dynamodb.us-west-2.amazonaws.com) are routed to a private DynamoDB endpoint within the Amazon network.
* You can configure Application Auto Scaling to manage provisioned concurrency on a schedule or based on utilization. Use scheduled scaling to increase provisioned concurrency in anticipation of peak traffic. To increase provisioned concurrency automatically as needed, use the Application Auto Scaling API to register a target and create a scaling policy.
* AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS) is a web service that enables you to request temporary, limited-privilege credentials for AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) users or for users that you authenticate (federated users). However, it is not supported by API Gateway.
* When you use the root user to manage CloudFront key pairs, you can only have up to two active CloudFront key pairs per AWS account.
* There are no message limits for storing in SQS, but 'in-flight messages' do have limits. Make sure to delete messages after you have processed them.
* Here is the correct way of reusing SSH keys in your AWS Regions:
  * Generate a public SSH key (.pub) file from the private SSH key (.pem) file.
  * Set the AWS Region you wish to import to.
  * Import the public SSH key into the new Region.
* One read capacity unit represents one strongly consistent read per second for an item up to 4 KB in size. If you need to read an item that is larger than 4 KB, DynamoDB will need to consume additional read capacity units.
* Standard Workflows on AWS Step Functions are suitable for long-running, durable, and auditable workflows that can also support any human approval steps.
* The Lambda function invocation is asynchronous - When an asynchronous invocation event exceeds the maximum age or fails all retry attempts, Lambda discards it. Or sends it to dead-letter queue if you have configured one.
* To ensure efficient tracing and provide a representative sample of the requests that your application serves, the X-Ray SDK applies a sampling algorithm to determine which requests get traced. By default, the X-Ray SDK records the first request each second, and five percent of any additional requests. X-Ray sampling is enabled directly from the AWS console, hence your application code does not need to change.
* Same-Region Replication (SRR) and Cross-Region Replication (CRR) can be configured at the S3 bucket level, a shared prefix level, or an object level using S3 object tags.
* S3 lifecycle actions are not replicated with S3 replication.
* You can use the Parameters section to customize your templates. Parameters enable you to input custom values to your template each time you create or update a stack.
* The Lambda runtime makes environment variables available to your code and sets additional environment variables that contain information about the function and invocation request. The total size of all environment variables doesn't exceed 4 KB. There is no limit defined on the number of variables that can be used.
* Using high-resolution custom metric, your applications can publish metrics to CloudWatch with 1-second resolution.
* In the ecs.config file you have to configure the parameter ECS_CLUSTER='your_cluster_name' to register the container instance with a cluster named 'your_cluster_name'.
* It's not always possible to distribute read and write activity evenly. When data access is imbalanced, a "hot" partition can receive a higher volume of read and write traffic compared to other partitions. To better accommodate uneven access patterns, DynamoDB adaptive capacity enables your application to continue reading and writing to hot partitions without being throttled, provided that traffic does not exceed your table’s total provisioned capacity or the partition maximum capacity.
* Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) defines a way for client web applications that are loaded in one domain to interact with resources in a different domain. When your API's resources receive requests from a domain other than the API's own domain and you want to restrict servicing these requests, you must disable cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) for selected methods on the resource.
* CodeBuild scales automatically, the organization does not have to do anything for scaling or for parallel builds.
* The X-Forwarded-For request header helps you identify the IP address of a client when you use an HTTP or HTTPS load balancer.
* You can enable API caching in Amazon API Gateway to cache your endpoint's responses. With caching, you can reduce the number of calls made to your endpoint and also improve the latency of requests to your API.
* If your AWS Elastic Beanstalk application performs operations or workflows that take a long time to complete, you can offload those tasks to a dedicated worker environment. 
* Amazon SQS provides short polling and long polling to receive messages from a queue. By default, queues use short polling. With short polling, Amazon SQS sends the response right away, even if the query found no messages. With long polling, Amazon SQS sends a response after it collects at least one available message, up to the maximum number of messages specified in the request. Amazon SQS sends an empty response only if the polling wait time expires. Long polling makes it inexpensive to retrieve messages from your Amazon SQS queue as soon as the messages are available.
* To run the X-Ray daemon locally, on-premises, or on other AWS services, download it, run it, and then give it permission to upload segment documents to X-Ray.
* Sticky sessions are a mechanism to route requests to the same target in a target group. This is useful for servers that maintain state information to provide a continuous experience to clients. To use sticky sessions, the clients must support cookies.
* EBS volumes support both in-flight encryption and encryption at rest using KMS.
* Mock is type of integration that lets API Gateway return a response without sending the request further to the backend. This is useful for API testing because it can be used to test the integration setup without incurring charges for using the backend and to enable collaborative development of an API.
* IAM database authentication works with MySQL and PostgreSQL engines for Aurora as well as MySQL, MariaDB and RDS PostgreSQL engines for RDS.
* The CodeDeploy agent is a software package that, when installed and configured on an instance, makes it possible for that instance to be used in CodeDeploy deployments.
*  If you terminate a container instance while it is in the STOPPED state, that container instance isn't automatically removed from the cluster. You will need to deregister your container instance in the STOPPED state by using the Amazon ECS console or AWS Command Line Interface. Once deregistered, the container instance will no longer appear as a resource in your Amazon ECS cluster.
*  A Classic Load Balancer with HTTP or HTTPS listeners might route more traffic to higher-capacity instance types. This distribution aims to prevent lower-capacity instance types from having too many outstanding requests. It’s a best practice to use similar instance types and configurations to reduce the likelihood of capacity gaps and traffic imbalances.
*  In a WebSocket API, the client and the server can both send messages to each other at any time. Backend servers can easily push data to connected users and devices, avoiding the need to implement complex polling mechanisms.
* To manage large Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) messages, you can use Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) and the Amazon SQS Extended Client Library for Java.
* To share information between stacks, export a stack's output values. Other stacks that are in the same AWS account and region can import the exported values.
* Kinesis Agent is a stand-alone Java software application that offers an easy way to collect and send data to Kinesis Data Streams.
* Downloading dependencies is a critical phase in the build process. These dependent files can range in size from a few KBs to multiple MBs. Because most of the dependent files do not change frequently between builds, you can noticeably reduce your build time by caching dependencies in S3.
* Use decode-authorization-message to decode additional information about the authorization status of a request from an encoded message returned in response to an AWS request.
* While using Redis with cluster mode enabled, you cannot manually promote any of the replica nodes to primary.
* Amazon S3 will reject any requests made over HTTP when using SSE-C.
* The cloudformation package command packages the local artifacts (local paths) that your AWS CloudFormation template references. The command will upload local artifacts, such as your source code for your AWS Lambda function.
* The cloudformation deploy command deploys the specified AWS CloudFormation template by creating and then executing a changeset.
* By default, the Scan operation processes data sequentially. Amazon DynamoDB returns data to the application in 1 MB increments, and an application performs additional Scan operations to retrieve the next 1 MB of data. The larger the table or index being scanned, the more time the Scan takes to complete. To address these issues, the Scan operation can logically divide a table or secondary index into multiple segments, with multiple application workers scanning the segments in parallel.
* A client of your API can invalidate an existing cache entry and reload it from the integration endpoint for individual requests. The client must send a request that contains the Cache-Control: max-age=0 header.
* The simplest way to set up connections to AWS CodeCommit repositories is to configure Git credentials for CodeCommit in the IAM console, and then use those credentials for HTTPS connections.
* For SQS, the minimum message size is 1 byte (1 character). The maximum is 262,144 bytes (256 KB).
* GSI (Global Secondary Index) is an index with a partition key and a sort key that can be different from those on the base table.
* LSI stands for Local Secondary Index. Some applications only need to query data using the base table's primary key; however, there may be situations where an alternate sort key would be helpful. To give your application a choice of sort keys, you can create one or more local secondary indexes on a table and issue Query or Scan requests against these indexes.
* One read capacity unit represents two eventually consistent reads per second, for an item up to 4 KB in size. So that means that for an item of 12KB in size, we need 3 RCU (12 KB / 4 KB) for two eventually consistent reads per second. As we need 16 eventually consistent reads per second, we need 3 * (16 / 2) = 24 RCU.
* You can not specify publicly routable IP addresses to an ALB.
* An ALB has three possible target types: Instance, IP and Lambda.
* `x-amz-server-side-encryption': 'AES256'` to be encrypted using SSE-S3.
* Repositories are automatically encrypted at rest.
* 
* 
